# Pictures from Google Photos, ICloud, or your Camera... all sorted!

Install the library with
```bash
pip install sortpics
```

and normalize your image collection with
```bash
sortpics
```
in the containing your image collection.

Note that the above only proposes a file renaming, it does not impact the file. If you agree with the proposal, you can run the script generated by `sortpics`, or run `sortpics --no-test`.

Images and movies are renamed based on their creation date. For instance, an image taken on Dec 25th, 2019 at 15:07:12 will be moved to `2019-12/2019-12-25 15.07.12.jpg`.

Additional features:
- The library only renames (moves) images. No deletion or copy occurs.
- When two or more images have identical timestamp at the resolution of a second, the name will include the millisecond.
- If, despite the above, two files have the same target, only the file with the largest file on disk is moved.
- Animated movies (joint `.JPG/.MOV` files) are moved in pair.
- Custom names are preserved, e.g. `My cute cat.jpg` is renamed to e.g. `2019-12/2019-12-12 19.06.44 My cute cat.jpg`.
- And, in case you change your mind, `sortpics` generates a undo script :smiley:

# Useful links

- [Google Takeout](https://takeout.google.com/settings/takeout) is a convenient way to download your Google Photo collection
- Nathan Broadbent's [ICloud Photo Downloader](https://github.com/ndbroadbent/icloud_photos_downloader) works well with ICloud
- Adrian Lopez's [fdupes](https://github.com/adrianlopezroche/fdupes) for finding exact duplicates.

# Develop in this package

To develop in this package, clone the project, and then create a dedicated Python environment with
```bash
conda env create --file environment.yml
```

and activate it with
```bash
conda activate sortpics
```

Then install the development version with
```bash
pip install -e .
```

If you want to contribute back** your changes, please install the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com) package with
```
pre-commit install
```

The tests for this package are in the `tests` folder, and can be run with
```
pytest
```
